Now let's talk about CloudFront.
CloudFront is a content delivery network or CDN.
So anytime you see CDN in the exam,
think CloudFront.
It improves the read performance
by caching the content of your website
at the different edge locations.
And because your content is cached
all around the world,
then your users all around the world
will have a lower latency
and this will improve the user experience.
CloudFront is made of hundreds of points
of presence globally
and that includes edge locations
and caches across the world.
On top of it,
by having the content distributed globally,
we are getting DDoS protection.
So DDoS is a sort of attack where
all your servers around the world
are getting attacked at the same time.
We'll see this later on in this course.
And the idea is that CloudFront,
because your application is worldwide,
then you're protected against these attacks
also using something called Shield
and Web Application Firewall
that we will be seeing in the security section.
So if you wanna look at a map of the world,
these are the map and we see some edge locations
as well at edge caches.
And so say we had created an S3 bucket
and a website on our S3 bucket in Australia,
but we had a user maybe in America.
Then what the user will do is
that it will request the content
from an American edge location using CloudFront
and CloudFront will be able to fetch the content
from Australia.
Now, if another user in the US
will be requesting the same content,
then it will be served directly from the edge
and it will not go all the way to Australia
to serve that content.
Same if a user is in China,
then it'll be talking
to a Chinese point of presence
and then redirected to the S3 buckets,
and then the content will be cached at the edge.
CloudFront has several types of origins,
which are basically backends you want
to connect CloudFront to.
So we have Amazon S3 buckets
for distributing files
and caching them at the edge.
And also for the other way to upload files
to Amazon S3 directly through CloudFront.
And the connection between CloudFront
and your S3 bucket is secured
using something called an OAC,
an Origin Access Control.
You can also have a VPC origin.
So this is if you have an application hosted
in a private subnets, in a VPC, then for example,
it could be an Application Balancer,
a Network Load Balancer, an EC2 Instance.
You can connect CloudFront directly to them privately.
You can also have any custom origin.
So anything that uses HTTP
can be used in the backend.
For example, it could be a website
hosted on Amazon S3.
And first we must make sure that the S3 bucket
is enabled as a static S3 website
or any public HTTP backend you want
within or outside of AWS.
So at a high level, how does CloudFront work?
We have the edge location
all around the world, okay?
And then it will be connecting to your origin.
So would it be an S3 bucket or an HGTP server?
And when the client connects
and does an HTTP request into your edge location,
then the edge location will see if
it has it in the cache.
If it doesn't have it in the cache,
then it will go to the origin
to get the request results.
And then once it retrieves the results,
it will be caching it into a local cache so
that if another client requests the same content
from the same edge location,
then the edge location does not need
to go to the origin.
So if we have S3 as an origin,
then if you look at the cloud,
your S3 bucket is your origin in some region,
and then you have edge locations
all around the world,
for example, at Los Angeles.
And your users accessing the edge location
in Los Angeles will get their content
directly served through the edge location.
But first the edge location will get it
from the origin S3 bucket
through the private network.
And the S3 bucket will be secured
using an origin access control.
And by modifying the S3 bucket policy
on the S3 bucket.
So this is the same when we have a user
in Sao Paulo, for example, in Brazil.
Again, this will be another edge location,
which will be serving users close to Brazil,
and then it will be a private connection
between your edge location and your S3 bucket
and so on.
So using CloudFront and the edge locations,
we can see that the content
of our S3 bucket in one region
can be distributed all around the world
through the edge locations or points of presence.
So one question that's common is
what is the difference between CloudFront
and something like S3 Replication?
Well, if you have CloudFront,
you're using the Global Edge network.
So this is about 216 points of presence
and the files that are going to be cached
in each edge location maybe for a day.
So this is amazing if you have static content
that must be able to be available
everywhere around the world.
S3 Cross Region Replication is different.
It must be set up for each region
you want replication to happen.
So this is not for every region in the world.
And then files are going to be updated
in near real time.
So there's no caching that happens.
And it is only for read only.
And so this is great if you have dynamic content
that needs to change all the time
and be available at low latency
in a few regions.
So these serve very different purposes.
CloudFront is a CDN,
which is to cache content all around the world,
whereas S3 Cross Region Replication is
to really replicate an entire bucket
into another region.
So hopefully that makes sense about CloudFront.
In the next lecture we'll have a play
and see how we can set up
a CloudFront distribution on the cloud
for an S3 bucket.
So we'll see you in the next lecture.